## 13. Command Scripts

You will probably find that your most intensive use of AMPL's command environment
occurs during the initial development of a `model`, when the results are unfamiliar
and changes are frequent. When the formulation eventually settles down, you may find
yourself typing the same series of commands over and over to `solve` for different collections
of `data`. To accelerate this process, you can arrange to have AMPL read often-used
sequences of commands from files or to repeat command sequences automatically, determining
how to proceed and when to stop on the basis of intermediate results.

A script is a sequence of commands, captured in a file, to be used and re-used.
Scripts can contain any AMPL commands, and may include programming language constructs
like for, repeat, and if to repeat statements and perform them conditionally.
In effect, these and related commands `let` you write small programs in the AMPL command
language. Another collection of commands permit stepping through a script for
observation or debugging. This chapter introduces AMPL command scripts, using formatted
printing and sensitivity analysis as examples.

AMPL command scripts are able to work directly with the sets of character strings that
are central to the definition of models. A for statement can specify commands to be
executed once for each member of some set, for example. To support scripts that work
with strings, AMPL provides a variety of string functions and operators, whose use is
described in the last section of this chapter.
