## 11. Modeling Commands

AMPL provides a variety of commands like `model`, `solve`, and `display` that tell
the AMPL modeling system what to do with models and `data`. Although these commands
may use AMPL expressions, they are not part of the modeling language itself. They are
intended to be used in an environment where you give a command, wait for the system to
`display` a response, then decide what command to give next. Commands might be typed
directly, or given implicitly by menus in a graphical user interface like the ones available
on the AMPL web site. Commands also appear in scripts, the subject of [Chapter 13](#missing) <!--- xTODO missing reference --->.

This chapter begins by describing the general principles of the command environment.
[Section 11.2](./11_2_setting_up_and_solving_models_and_data.ipynb) then presents the commands that you are likely to use most for setting
up and solving optimization problems.

After solving a problem and looking at the results, the next step is often to make a
change and `solve` again. The remainder of this chapter explains the variety of changes
that can be made without restarting the AMPL session from the beginning. [Section 11.3](./11_3_modifying_data.ipynb)
describes commands for re-reading `data` and modifying specific `data` values. [Section 11.4](./11_4_modifying_models.ipynb)
describes facilities for completely deleting or redefining `model` components, and for temporarily
dropping constraints, fixing variables, or relaxing integrality of variables. (Convenient
commands for examining `model` information can be found in [Chapter 12](#missing) <!--- xTODO missing reference --->, especially
in [Section 12.6](#missing) <!--- xTODO missing reference --->.)
