## 10. Database Access

The structure of indexed `data` in AMPL has much in common with the structure of the
relational tables widely used in database applications. The AMPL `table` declaration lets
you take advantage of this similarity to define explicit connections between sets, parameters,
variables, and expressions in AMPL, and relational database tables maintained by
other software. The `read table` and `write table` commands subsequently use
these connections to import `data` values into AMPL and to export `data` and solution values
from AMPL.

The relational tables read and written by AMPL reside in files whose names and locations
you specify as part of the `table` declaration. To work with these files, AMPL
relies on `table` handlers, which are add-ons that can be loaded as needed. Handlers may
be provided by the vendors of solvers or database software. AMPL has built-in handlers
for two simple relational `table` formats useful for experimentation, and the AMPL web site
provides a handler that works with the widely available ODBC interface.

This chapter begins by showing how AMPL entities can be put into correspondence
with the columns of relational tables, and how the same correspondences can be
described and implemented by use of AMPL's `table` declaration. Subsequent sections
present basic features for reading and writing external relational tables, additional rules
for handling complications that arise when reading and writing the same `table`, and mechanisms
for writing a series of tables or columns and for reading spreadsheet `data`. The
final section briefly describes some standard and built-in handlers.
