## 12. Display Commands

AMPL offers a rich variety of commands and options to help you examine and report
the results of optimization. [Section 12.1](./12_1_browsing_through_results_the_display_command.ipynb) introduces `display`, the most convenient command
for arranging set members and numerical values into lists and tables; Sections 12.2
and 12.3 provide a detailed account of `display` options that give you more control over
how the lists and tables are arranged and how numbers appear in them. [Section 12.4](./12_4_formatting_output_print_and_printf.ipynb)
describes print and printf, two related commands that are useful for preparing `data`
to be sent to other programs, and for formatting simple reports.

Although our examples are based on the `display` of sets, parameters and variables —
and expressions involving them — you can use the same commands to inspect dual values,
slacks, reduced costs, and other quantities associated with an optimal solution; the
rules for doing so are explained in [Section 12.5](./12_5_displaying_solution_values.ipynb).

AMPL also provides ways to access modeling and solving information. [Section 12.6](./12_6_accessing_model_and_solver_status.ipynb)
describes features that can be useful when, for example, you want to view a parameter's
declaration at the command-line, `display` a particular constraint from a problem instance,
list the values and bounds of all variables regardless of their names, or record timings of
AMPL and solver activities.

Finally, [Section 12.7](./12_7_general_output_commands.ipynb) addresses general facilities for manipulating output of AMPL
commands. These include features for redirection of command output, logging of output,
and suppression of error messages.
