# 7. Parameters and Expressions

A large optimization model invariably uses many numerical values. As we have
explained before, only a concise symbolic description of these values need appear in an
AMPL model, while the explicit data values are given in separate data statements, to be
described in Chapter 9 xTODO.

In AMPL a single named numerical value is called a parameter. Although some
parameters are defined as individual scalar values, most occur in vectors or matrices or
other collections of numerical values indexed over sets. We will thus loosely refer to an
indexed collection of parameters as "a parameter" when the meaning is clear. To begin
this chapter, [Section 7.1](../07/7_1_parameter_declarations.ipynb) describes the rules for declaring parameters and for referring to
them in an AMPL model.

Parameters and other numerical values are the building blocks of the expressions that
make up a model's objective and constraints. Sections [7.2](../07/7_2_arithmetic_expressions.ipynb) and [7.3](../07/7_3_logical_and_conditional_expressions.ipynb) describe arithmetic
expressions, which have a numerical value, and logical expressions, which evaluate to
true or false. Along with the standard unary and binary operators of conventional algebraic
notation, AMPL provides iterated operators like sum and prod, and a conditional
(if-then-else) operator that chooses between two expressions, depending on the truth
of a third expression.

The expressions in objectives and constraints necessarily involve variables, whose
declaration and use will be discussed in [Chapter 8](../08/08.md). There are several common uses for
expressions that involve only sets and parameters, however. [Section 7.4](../07/7_4_restrictions_on_parameters.ipynb) describes how
logical expressions are used to test the validity of data, either directly in a parameter
declaration, or separately in a check statement. [Section 7.5](../07/7_5_computed_parameters.ipynb) introduces features for defining
new parameters through arithmetic expressions in previously declared parameters and
sets, and [7.6](../07/7_6_randomly_generated_parameters.ipynb) describes randomly-generated parameters.

Although the key purpose of parameters is to represent numerical values, they can
also represent logical values or arbitrary strings. These possibilities are covered in
Sections [7.7](../07/7_7_logical_parameters.ipynb) and [7.8](../07/7_8_symbolic_parameters.ipynb), respectively. AMPL provides a range of operators for strings, but as
they are most often used in AMPL commands and programming rather than in models, we
defer their introduction to Section 13.7 xTODO.

