## 19. Complementarity Problems

A variety of physical and economic phenomena are most naturally modeled by saying
that certain pairs of inequality constraints must be complementary, in the sense that at
least one must hold with equality. These conditions may in principle be accompanied by
an objective function, but are more commonly used to construct complementarity problems
for which a feasible solution is sought. Indeed, optimization may be viewed as a
special case of complementarity, since the standard optimality conditions for linear and
smooth nonlinear optimization are complementarity problems. Other kinds of complementarity
problems do not arise from optimization, however, or cannot be conveniently
formulated or solved as optimization problems.

The AMPL operator complements permits complementarity conditions to be specified
directly in constraint declarations. Complementarity models can thereby be formulated
in a natural way, and instances of such models are easily sent to special solvers for
complementarity problems.

To motivate the syntax of complements, we begin by describing how it would be
used to model a few simple economic equilibrium problems, some equivalent to linear
programs and some not. We then give a general definition of the complements operator
for pairs of inequalities and for more general "mixed" complementarity conditions
via double inequalities. Where appropriate in these sections, we also comment on an
AMPL interface to the PATH solver for "square" mixed complementarity problems. In a
final section, we describe how complementarity constraints are accommodated in several
of AMPL's existing features, including presolve, constraint-name suffixes, and generic
synonyms for constraints.
