# 3. Transportation and Assignment Models

The linear programs in [Tutorial 1](../01/01.md) and [Tutorial 2](../02/02.md) are all examples of classical
"activity" models.
In such models the
variables and constraints deal with distinctly different kinds of activities
&ndash;
tons of steel produced versus
hours of mill time used,
or packages of food bought versus percentages of nutrients supplied.  To use these
models you must supply coefficients like tons per hour or
percentages per package that convert a unit of activity in the variables to
the corresponding amount of activity in the constraints.

This chapter addresses a significantly different but equally common
kind of model, in which something is shipped or assigned, but not
converted.  The resulting constraints, which reflect both limitations on
availability and requirements for delivery, have an especially simple
form.

We begin by describing the so-called transportation problem, in which a
single good is to be shipped from several origins to several destinations at
minimum overall cost.  This problem gives rise to the simplest kind of
linear program for minimum-cost flows.  We then generalize to a
transportation model, an essential step if we are to manage all the data,
variables and constraints effectively.

As with the diet model, the power of the transportation model lies in its
adaptability.  We continue by considering some other interpretations of the
"flow" from origins to destinations, and work through one particular
interpretation in which the variables represent assignments rather than
shipments.

The transportation model is only the most elementary kind of
minimum-cost flow model.  More general models are often best
expressed as networks, in which nodes 
&ndash; 
some of
which may be origins or destinations 
&ndash;
are connected by arcs that carry
flows of some kind.  `AMPL` offers convenient features for
describing network flow models, including
`node`
and
`arc`
declarations that specify network structure directly.  Network models and
the relevant `AMPL` features are the topic of Chapter @Network@.
