## 8. Linear Programs: Variables, Objectives and Constraints

The best-known kind of optimization model, which has served for all of our examples
so far, is the linear program. The variables of a linear program take values from some
continuous range; the objective and constraints must use only linear functions of the variables.
Previous chapters have described these requirements informally or implicitly; here
we will be more specific.

Linear programs are particularly important because they accurately represent many
practical applications of optimization. The simplicity of linear functions makes linear
models easy to formulate, interpret, and analyze. They are also easy to solve; if you can
express your problem as a linear program, even in thousands of constraints and variables,
then you can be confident of finding an optimal solution accurately and quickly.

This chapter describes how variables are declared, defines the expressions that AMPL
recognizes as being linear in the variables, and gives the rules for declaring linear objectives
and constraints. Much of the material on variables, objectives and constraints is
basic to other AMPL models as well, and will be used in later chapters.

xTODO ==> Update this last paragraph completely
Because AMPL is fundamentally an algebraic modeling system, this chapter concentrates
on features for expressing linear programs in terms of algebraic objectives and constraints.
For linear programs that have certain special structures, such as networks, AMPL
offers alternative notations that may make models easier to write, read and solve. Such
special structures are among the topics of Chapters 15 through 17.

