## 16. Columnwise Formulations

Because the fundamental idea of an optimization problem is to minimize or maximize
a function of the decision variables, `subject to` constraints on them, AMPL is oriented
toward explicit descriptions of variables and constraints. This is why `var` declarations
tend to come first, followed by the minimize or maximize and `subject to` declarations
that use the variables. A wide variety of optimization problems can be formulated
with this approach, as the examples in this book demonstrate.

For certain kinds of linear programs, however, it can be preferable to declare the
objective and constraints before the variables. Usually in these cases, there is a much
simpler pattern or interpretation to the coefficients of a single variable down all the constraints
than to the coefficients of a single constraint across all the variables. In the jargon
of linear programming, it is easier to describe the matrix of constraint coefficients
"columnwise" than "row-wise". As a result, the formulation is simplified by first
declaring the constraints and objective, then listing the nonzero coefficients in the declarations
of the variables.

One example of this phenomenon is provided by the network linear programs
described in [Chapter 15](../15/15.md). Each variable has at most two nonzero coefficients in the constraints,
a +1 and a -1. Rather than trying to describe the constraints algebraically, you
may find it easier to specify, in each variable's declaration, the one or two constraints that
the variable figures in. In fact, this is exactly what you do by using the special `node` and
`arc` declarations introduced by [Section 15.3](../15/15_3_declaring_network_models_by_node_and_arc.ipynb). The `node` declarations come first to
describe the nature of the constraints at the network nodes. Then the `arc` declarations
define the network flow variables, using from and to phrases to locate their nonzero
coefficients among the `node` constraints. This approach is particularly appealing because
it corresponds directly to the way most people think about a network flow problem.

It would be impractical for AMPL to offer special declarations and phrases for every
kind of linear program that you might want to declare by columns rather than by rows.
Instead, additional options to the `var` and `subject to` declarations permit any linear
program to be given a columnwise declaration. This chapter introduces AMPL's columnwise
features through two contrasting examples — an input-output production model, and
a work-shift scheduling model — and concludes with a summary of the language extensions
that may be used in columnwise formulations.
