## 15. Network Linear Programs

Models of networks have appeared in several chapters, notably in the transportation
problems in [Chapter 3](../03/03.md). We now return to the formulation of these models, and AMPL's
features for handling them.

[Figure 15-1](./15_1_minimumcost_transshipment_models.ipynb#fig-15-1) shows the sort of diagram commonly used to describe a network problem.
A circle represents a `node` of the network, and an arrow denotes an `arc` running from one
`node` to another. A flow of some kind travels from `node` to `node` along the arcs, in the
directions of the arrows.

An endless variety of models involve optimization over such networks. Many cannot
be expressed in any straightforward algebraic way or are very difficult to solve. Our discussion
starts with a particular class of network optimization models in which the decision
variables represent the amounts of flow on the arcs, and the constraints are limited to
two kinds: simple bounds on the flows, and conservation of flow at the nodes. Models
restricted in this way give rise to the problems known as network linear programs. They
are especially easy to describe and solve, yet are widely applicable. Some of their benefits
extend to certain generalizations of the network flow form, which we also touch upon.

We begin with minimum-cost transshipment models, which are the largest and most
intuitive source of network linear programs, and then proceed to other well-known cases:
maximum flow, shortest path, transportation and assignment models. Examples are initially
given in terms of standard AMPL variables and constraints, defined in `var` and
`subject to` declarations. In later sections, we introduce `node` and `arc` declarations
that permit models to be described more directly in terms of their network structure. The
last section discusses formulating network models so that the resulting linear programs
can be solved most efficiently.
