## 18. Nonlinear Programs

Although any model that violates the linearity rules of [Chapter 8](../08/08.md) is "not linear", the
term "nonlinear program" is traditionally used in a more narrow sense. For our purposes
in this chapter, a nonlinear program, like a linear program, has continuous (rather than
integer or discrete) variables; the expressions in its objective and constraints need not be
linear, but they must represent "smooth" functions. Intuitively, a smooth function of
one variable has a graph like that in [Figure 18-1a](./18_1_sources_of_nonlinearity.ipynb#fig-18-1a), for which there is a well-defined slope
at every point; there are no jumps as in [Figure 18-1b](./18_1_sources_of_nonlinearity.ipynb#fig-18-1b), or kinks as in [Figure 18-1c](./18_1_sources_of_nonlinearity.ipynb#fig-18-1c). Mathematically,
a smooth function of any number of variables must be continuous and must
have a well-defined gradient (vector of first derivatives) at every point; Figures 18-1b and 18-1c
exhibit points at which a function is discontinuous and nondifferentiable, respectively.

Optimization problems in functions of this kind have been singled out for several reasons:
because they are readily distinguished from other "not linear" problems, because
they have many and varied applications, and because they are amenable to solution by
well-established types of algorithms. Indeed, most solvers for nonlinear programming
use methods that rely on the assumptions of continuity and differentiability. Even with
these assumptions, nonlinear programs are typically a lot harder to formulate and solve
than comparable linear ones.

This chapter begins with an introduction to sources of nonlinearity in mathematical
programs. We do not try to cover the variety of nonlinear models systematically, but
instead give a few examples to indicate why and how nonlinearities occur. Subsequent
sections discuss the implications of nonlinearity for AMPL variables and expressions.
Finally, we point out some of the difficulties that you are likely to confront in trying to
solve nonlinear programs.

While the focus of this chapter is on nonlinear optimization, keep in mind that AMPL
can also express systems of nonlinear equations or inequalities, even if there is no objective
to optimize. There exist solvers specialized to this case, and many solvers for nonlinear
optimization can also do a decent job of finding a feasible solution to an equation or
inequality system.


```
					(a) Smooth and continuous function
        .
        .
        .
        .
        .
        .
        .
        .                    (b) Discontinuous function
                                         ..
                                          ...
                                            .
								(c) Continuous, nondifferentiable function
```

**[Figure 18-1](./18_1_sources_of_nonlinearity.ipynb#fig-18-1):** Classes of nonlinear functions.
