# 5. Simple Sets and Indexing

The next four chapters of this book are a comprehensive presentation of AMPL's facilities
for linear programming. The organization is by language features, rather than by
model types as in the four preceding tutorial chapters. Since the basic features of AMPL
tend to be closely interrelated, we do not attempt to explain any one feature in isolation.
Rather, we assume at the outset a basic knowledge of AMPL such as Chapters 1 through 4
provide.

We begin with sets, the most fundamental components of an AMPL model. Almost
all of the parameters, variables, and constraints in a typical model are indexed over sets,
and many expressions contain operations (usually summations) over sets. Set indexing is
the feature that permits a concise model to describe a large mathematical program.

Because sets are so fundamental, AMPL offers a broad variety of set types and operations.
A set's members may be strings or numbers, ordered or unordered; they may occur
singly, or as ordered pairs, triples or longer "tuples". Sets may be defined by listing or
computing their members explicitly, by applying operations like union and intersection to
other sets, or by specifying arbitrary arithmetic or logical conditions for membership.

Any model component or iterated operation can be indexed over any set, using a standard
form of indexing expression. Even sets themselves may be declared in collections
indexed over other sets.

This chapter introduces the simpler kinds of sets, as well as set operations and indexing
expressions; it concludes with a discussion of ordered sets. [Chapter 6](../06/06.md) shows how
these ideas are extended to compound sets, including sets of pairs and triples, and indexed
collections of sets. Chapter 7 is devoted to parameters and expressions, and Chapter 8 to
the variables, objectives and constraints that make up a linear program.
