# 1. Production Models: Maximizing Profits

As we stated in the Introduction,
mathematical programming is a technique for solving certain kinds of
problems 
&ndash;
notably maximizing profits and minimizing costs
&ndash; 
subject to constraints on resources, capacities,
supplies, demands, and the like.
AMPL is a language for specifying such optimization problems.
It provides an algebraic notation that is very close to the way that
you would describe a problem mathematically,
so that it is easy to convert from a familiar mathematical description to AMPL.

We will concentrate
initially on linear programming, which is the
best known and easiest case; other kinds of mathematical
programming are taken up later in the book.
This chapter addresses one of the most common applications of
linear programming:  maximizing the profit of some operation,
subject to constraints that limit what can be produced. Chapters
[2](../02/02.md)
and
[3](../03/03.md)
are devoted to two other equally common kinds of
linear programs, and 
[Chapter 4](../04/04.md)
shows how linear
programming models can be replicated and combined to produce truly
large-scale problems. These chapters are written with the beginner
in mind, but experienced practitioners of mathematical programming
should find them useful as a quick introduction to AMPL.

We begin with a linear program (or LP for short) in only two decision variables,
motivated by a mythical steelmaking operation.
This will provide a quick review of linear programming
to refresh your memory if you already have some experience,
or to help you get started if you're just learning.
We'll show how the same LP can be represented as a general algebraic model
of production, together with specific data.
Then we'll show how to express several linear programming problems in AMPL
and how to run AMPL and a solver to produce a solution.

The separation of model and data is the key to describing more
complex linear programs in a concise and understandable fashion. The
final example of the chapter illustrates this by presenting several enhancements
to the model.
