## 20. Integer Linear Programs

Many linear programming problems require certain variables to have whole number,
or `integer`, values. Such a requirement arises naturally when the variables represent entities
like packages or people that can not be fractionally divided — at least, not in a meaningful
way for the situation being modeled. Integer variables also play a role in formulating
equation systems that `model` logical conditions, as we will show later in this chapter.

In some situations, the optimization techniques described in previous chapters are sufficient
to find an `integer` solution. An `integer` optimal solution is guaranteed for certain
network linear programs, as explained in [Section 15.5](#missing) <!--- xTODO missing reference --->. Even where there is no guarantee,
a linear programming solver may happen to find an `integer` optimal solution for the particular
instances of a `model` in which you are interested. This happened in the solution of
the multicommodity transportation `model` ([Figure 4-1](../04/4_1_a_multicommodity_transportation_model.ipynb#fig-4-1)) for the particular `data` that we
specified ([Figure 4-2](../04/4_1_a_multicommodity_transportation_model.ipynb#missing)).

Even if you do not obtain an `integer` solution from the solver, chances are good that
you'll get a solution in which most of the variables lie at `integer` values. Specifically,
many solvers are able to return an "extreme" solution in which the number of variables
not lying at their bounds is at most the number of constraints. If the bounds are integral,
all of the variables at their bounds will have `integer` values; and if the rest of the `data` is
integral, many of the remaining variables may turn out to be integers, too. You may then
be able to adjust the relatively few non-`integer` variables to produce a completely `integer`
solution that is close enough to feasible and optimal for practical purposes.

An example is provided by the scheduling linear program of Figures 16-4 and 16-5.
Since the number of variables greatly exceeds the number of constraints, most of the variables
end up at their bound of 0 in the optimal solution, and some other variables come
out at `integer` values as well. The remaining variables can be rounded up to a nearby `integer`
solution that is a little more costly but still satisfies the constraints.

Despite all these possibilities, there remain many circumstances in which the restriction
to integrality must be enforced explicitly by the solver. Integer programming solvers
face a much more difficult problem than their linear programming counterparts, however;
they generally require more computer time and memory, and often demand more help
from the user in formulation and in choice of options. As a result, the size of problem
that you can `solve` will be more limited for `integer` programs than for linear ones.
This chapter first describes AMPL declarations of ordinary `integer` variables, and then
introduces the use of zero-one (or `binary`) variables for modeling logical conditions. A
concluding section offers some advice on formulating and solving `integer` programs
effectively.
